three two
right this is a pretty cheap version of
the traditional compass so one if you've
ever wanted to draw a corner onto a
table whether you're doing a full circle
you're either going to use one of these
or give up using my version use
something like a coffee mug the big
problem with compass is it's got a high
center of gravity so you've got a pivot
point on one end you've got pencil in
the other you draw the circle around you
come back to the point that you started
the point moves and you don't get a
circle you get a kind of strange oval
shape so that's our problem the solution
any steel or aluminium rule from six
inches long to three foot long it really
doesn't matter
these are try scribes they're flat line
Tramell heads
click the trammel head line travel head
up on to your rule set up the diameter
of the circle that you want that
literally just like I say fits onto the
still world like that now that's ready
to go the big difference you put your
finger on the top here you strike an arc
you can let go go for a cup of tea come
back again and the points and the
position of your travel head not moving
which is the object of the game so you
come round and I don't know whether the
cameraman would like to zoom in but
you'll probably find that those two
points actually converge and it is a
proper circle so that's the big
advantage on the flat line travel heads
the nice thing being with these is that
they come with not only a pivot point
they come with a pencil a small post
that holds disposable knife blades so
the little kick comes with a blade you
snap off two sections of a blade pop it
in the post pinch it up with an allowing
key that it comes with and that means to
say that once you pop that on your steel
rule you can then cut out circles in
card veneer or if you're working across
endgrain and you're striking a circle to
maybe
route up the up against the edge with it
it's a much much more defined point that
you're going to be able to work to so
there you have it two diecast Tramell
heads they flat lie means to say that
you can pretty much subscribe any site
of circle or arc that you choose to they
bid good little beasties we suggest you
have some another really useful feature
of flat line travel heads is that you
don't use them for being a flat line
femoral head very simply if you ever
want to use it as a marking gauge or a
mortis gauge simply use any try squaring
it can be an engineer square it can be a
regular tri square and it can be six
inches long it can be two four long it
really doesn't matter simply set your
try scribe to whatever depth you want
and obviously that's going to be quite
deep marking gauge certainly way beyond
the capabilities of a normal one pop it
up against the edge of the board that
you're gonna strike and that is a
perfect parallel line which is running
deep into your board obviously it comes
with two scribe heads so you just pop
another one on there if you want to use
it as a mortise gauge so like I say
they're dead useful predominantly used
for striking big circles or small
circles but again if you want to use a
mortise gauge or a marking gauge the
facility is there for you to have a go